Hi, Mystery Recapped here. Today I’m going
to explain a Japanese science fiction film
called “Terra Formars,” Spoilers
ahead! Watch out and take care!
Far in the future, overpopulation is about to
destroy the planet earth. To create a backup
plan in case our ecosystem fails, humans decide
to change the atmosphere of Mars and make it
suitable for human existence. The process is
called terraforming. They start by growing a
simpler form of life like moss on its surface.
The moss would help to increase the temperature
of the planet and make it similar to the earth’s
temperature. To spread moss over its surface,
genetically engineered cockroaches are sent.
It is now the year 2597. Somewhere in Tokyo,
two criminals named Komachi and Nanao are being
chased by the police. They run frantically through
the crowd but are caught. As the police surround
them, a futuristic vehicle levitates in the sky
and lands nearby. Inside the vehicle is Dr.
Honda and his assistant. They are there to
fetch the two criminals and use them for
their own benefit. The doctor offers them
to be a part of the Mars colonization mission.
Komachi and Nanao will have to go to its surface
and eradicate all the cockroach colonies
since they are no longer needed. Dr. Honda
promises to pardon their crimes if they agree
to participate. The duo accepts the offer.
Cut to two years later, Nanao and Komachi are
now trained and are flying to Mars with other
criminals like them in a spaceship called BUGS2.
Nanao is always sceptical of their competence
because their team is made up of thugs and
criminals. As she is talking to Komachi about
the matter, the ship’s captain Keisuke Dojima
informs them that the ship is about to land
on Mars’s surface. She orders everyone to prepare
for landing. After they finally touch down on the
planet, they see that Mars is no longer red like
it used to be; rather, it looks more like earth,
spread with green moss. Lieutenant Mina launches
a device that secretes chemicals into the air to
kill the cockroaches. The captain then orders them
to spread around in a group of two and see if the
eradication process is working. They plan to meet
in three hours and choose their team members. A
team member named Asuka is paired up with Yakuza.
But she strangely insists on being with the
group’s computer specialist Ichiro. The captain
accepts the request, not wanting a conflict to
arise. The team's drones then locate another ship
sent ten years ago called the BUGS1 nearby.
Dojima contacts the doctor and tells him they
are ready for the first contact. The doctor
starts to jump excitedly, anticipating the
results of the mission. The groups then step
on the surface and start searching for dead
cockroaches. Two group members named Jen and
Maria are confused to see no cockroaches
on the moss. As they continue looking,
suddenly, the two come across three strange
creatures standing right in front of them.
They quickly hide behind a rock in fear. They
had not been told about such large creatures
who look like human-sized anthropomorphic
cockroaches and have clubs as a weapon. Meanwhile,
Komachi and Nanao, who are also looking for
dead cockroaches, come across the same creature.
Komachi is fascinated and tries waving at it,
but within seconds, the creature attacks Nanao
and snaps her neck. It then runs away in a
flash, leaving Nanao’s limp body on the ground.
Nanao dies in Komachi’s arms, and he watches her
in distress. Just then, Jen’s team arrives and
tells Komachi about their encounter. The creatures
have also killed Asuka. They rush back to the ship
and tell the captain about the creature, only to
find out that the captain knew about them from
the very beginning. He was ordered not to tell the
team members about the creature by the doctor.
The captain explains that the cockroaches that
were sent five hundred years ago evolved at a
rapid speed because of the abundance of radiation
and now have turned into creatures stronger than
humans. Now, the doctor appears as a hologram
in front of the team and assures them they
have nothing to worry about. The doctor had been
preparing for this very moment for a long time.
He has prepared distinguished injections for every
member that will grant them the superpowers of
several insects. The drug will enhance their
DNA by combining it with that of the insect.
Using those unique powers, they can battle the
evolved cockroaches. However, the members do not
want to fight the cockroaches; rather, they want
to abort the mission and fly back to the earth
immediately. But soon, their ship is surrounded
by the creatures. One brave team member named God
Lee volunteers to divert the cockroaches
until the others restart the craft.
He heads outside and injects himself with
the chemical that the doctor had provided.
As soon as he does that, a rapid mutation
starts inside his body, turning him into
a hybrid between human and ground beetles. Now,
Lee is able to shoot out flames from his body as
Beetles do. With his new powers, Lee battles the
cockroaches, who seem to be as powerful as him.
He uses his unique power and shoots fire from
his hand. The force from the flames pushes
the creatures back and burns them. But when it
subsides, it is seen that only the exoskeleton
of the creature is burnt. A cockroach then
runs towards him and kills him in a flash.
Meanwhile, another cockroach latches itself to the
spaceship and breaks its windows. It enters the
craft and immediately kills two of the members,
making the others fear for their lives. The
captain quickly injects himself with the drug
and starts to evolve. His DNA is mixed with the
DNA of bullet ants, who have the ability to carry
things that are a hundred times their weight.
The captain then easily smashes the cockroach
to the floor and kills it. The team celebrates,
but their happiness is cut short when they notice
a crowd of cockroaches heading towards the ship
from the radar. Knowing that they cannot
battle them all, everyone decides to take off
and go back to the earth. However, when
the lieutenant tries to start the ship,
the engines malfunction, and the system shuts
down. It seems as though someone has deliberately
sabotaged the ship to stop it from taking
off. The captain quickly thinks of a plan.
He wants the team to go to the BUGS1 and bring all
the necessary parts they will need to fix BUGS2,
while he fights the cockroaches. Everyone agrees,
but Ichiro asks to stay behind with the captain
and help him. Before making his way to the other
ship, Komachi goes to see Nanao’s corpse for the
last time. He notices weird strings coming out
of her mouth but doesn’t think much of it.
Now, the team gets inside the Mars rover,
which will have to travel through a hoard
of cockroaches. A member named Tezuka offers
to help them avoid the creatures and injects
himself with the drug. He evolves into a Macley
bug who can shoot out projectiles of gases
in the form of flame at a very high speed.
He uses his power to propel the Mars rover
forward through the crowd of cockroaches.
Meanwhile, the captain fights the cockroaches
inside the ship with all his might, but
more and more of them keep entering.
He quickly makes his way to the control room
and vacuums out the oxygen inside the ship,
so all the cockroaches inside would die due
to suffocation. His plan works, and soon,
the cockroaches start to fall unconscious. But
the lack of oxygen harms the captain as well,
making both him and Ichiro fall to the ground.
At the same time, the team inside the rover sees
something massive approaching them. When
they get a clear look, they are surprised
to see a massive wave of millions of cockroaches
coming their way. Tsuka still doesn’t back down
and uses all his power to propel the ship forward.
They strike the creatures and soon land safely on
the other side of the cockroach wave.
The group then happily moves forward,
but not long after, another wave approaches them.
This one is even larger than the other wave,
containing of millions of creatures. Tsuka cannot
handle them together, so two of the team members
named Maria and Osaku, transform themselves into
their hybrid versions as well. The three try
their best to fight off all the creatures, but the
rover flips and aggressively lands on the ground.
The three are thrown to the ground, while
the ones inside the rover are knocked out.
The rover turns out to be on autopilot mode
and takes the members to the destination ship.
Tsuka, Maria, and Osaku try fighting the hoard
of creatures but are eventually killed.
When the group inside the rover gains their
consciousness back, they are already at the BUGS1.
They make their way inside while two members guard
the entrance. Mina tries to run a diagnostic of
the ship, and they soon realize that the ship is
transmitting data to someone on earth. Just then,
the group hears gunshots and rushes outside. Both
of the guards have been killed. The cockroaches
have found the weapons in the BUGS and are using
them to fight. Komachi injects himself with the
drug and mutates into a massive hornet. With his
newfound powers, he can punch holes through the
cockroaches’ bodies and kill them in one go. Jen
does the same and turns into a desert Locust that
can jump up to ninety stories high, while Mina
transforms into a praying mantis that can slash
the cockroaches into pieces. The team battles
the cockroaches and kills them in no time.
The scene changes to the doctor calling someone.
The phone is picked up by one of the cockroaches
on Mars. Unlike other cockroaches, it can
speak Japanese and communicate with the doctor.
He warns the insect not to get close to Komachi,
once he transforms because his insect is extremely
dangerous. After ending the call, the cockroach
goes inside the ship BUGS2 and re-circulates
its oxygen. Then, the creature’s body tears down
the middle and emerges a transformed Asuka from
inside. The team had thought that she was dead,
but it turns out that she was on the doctor’s
side the whole time. Her unique power after being
injected is that she has the ability to control
the cockroaches’ minds like an emerald cockroach
wasp. So, she manipulated the insects to go
against each other and survived. She then kills
the captain and pours water into Ichiro’s body.
Ichiro, too, has been in the plan since the
beginning. His body has transformed into the Asian
coronamide, a creature who can survive in
extreme conditions and only needs water to
reactivate. The doctor has assigned them on a
mission to bring a cockroach egg back on earth,
so the Japanese government can breed them
and use them to strengthen their military.
This was their prime mission and the cockroach
eliminating mission was just a decoy.
Ichiro and Asuka then take off the
ship with the egg in it. However,
the egg starts to hatch midway and gives birth to
two evolved cockroaches. Asuka tries to use her
power to control them, but it doesn’t work. The
creatures are far more evolved from the others,
making them the most powerful ones of them all.
They kill Asuka and call their own kind for
help. The cockroaches on the surface hear the
call and flap their wings to fly to the ship.
When a swarm of cockroaches latches onto the ship,
it starts to malfunction and crash beside BUGS1.
The evolved cockroaches come out of
the ship and order the others to attack
Komachi and the group. Komachi injects
himself with the other dose of the drug,
speeding his evolution. They do not have much
difficulty fighting the normal cockroaches,
but the evolved ones are hard to defeat. One
of them kills Mina after ripping her arm off.
Jin injects himself with the second dose of the
drug while Komachi is on his third dose.
With their heightened powers, they kill more
cockroaches rapidly. However, the creatures
are nowhere near backing down. Jin injects
himself yet again and develops a pair of wings.
Now, the cockroaches fly in the sky and battle
him. They attack the two in waves and do not
die down because of their number. Eventually, Jen
realizes that to defeat them, they should defeat
the evolved leaders. He injects himself multiple
times with the drug, speeding his transformation
and making it irreversible with every dose. After
that, he kicks one of the leaders and knocks his
head off with immense power. But now, he has used
all his powers and cannot fight anymore. Komachi
tries defending Jin from the other leader but is
defeated easily. Before the leader can kill them,
a magical glowing creature comes flying towards
them. It spreads glowing dust all around as
everyone looks at it in awe. The flying creature
is Nanao, who has evolved into her final form.
Komachi flies towards Nanao, but before he can get
her, one of the cockroaches fires at him. However,
the dust Nanao had spread turns out to be tiny
explosives that cause a chain of explosions,
taking all the cockroaches with them. Jin
flies away before the explosion can get him
and saves Komachi just in time.
However, Nanao dies in the explosion.
Sometime later, Komachi wakes up and sees
Jin has completely turned into an insect.
Jin asks Komachi to go to earth without him as
this is his new life now. Komachi obliges and
makes his way to the ship. Before he can reach
inside, he sees that the leader is still alive.
He punches the weak cockroach but spares his
life out of kindness. Inside the ship, he finds
Ichiro still alive. Ichiro saves Komachi’s
life by shooting the cockroach behind him.
The two then finally launch the escape pod and fly
away to earth as the cockroaches watch them.
Back on earth, the doctor notices that
Ichiro has hacked into their system and is
broadcasting the whole encounter worldwide.
The doctor’s assistant starts to panic,
now that the Japanese government’s secret is being
revealed to the world. However, the doctor seems
calm and says that he will sell all the BUGS’s
data to other governments of the world that are
willing to buy them. The assistant points her
gun at the doctor as she turns out to be a spy
for the Japanese government. But the doctor is
already ready for the attack, dodging the bullet
with a protective barrier. He then kills the
assistant with a poison that was inserted in
the lab in the case of an emergency. Back in
the spaceship, Ichiro vows to expose everyone
involved in the mission. When asked what he wants
to do when he gets back to earth, Komachi replies
that he will make tombs in the memory of everyone
who died, and then come back to Mars again.
Subscribe for more videos like
this, turn on notifications,
and leave a like to help the channel out.
Thank you for watching.